If you use the Internet, you
should be aware of your digital
footrint.
Just like hysical footrints on a
dirt path that show where
someone has been walking, your
digital footrint is a history of
all of your online activity.
Any social media posts you make,
any websites you visit, and any
information you share online
contributes to your digital
footrint.
Now, your digital footrint isn't
a single item.
It's more of the impression and
profile that people can build
about you by viewing and
following what you've done
online across various websites
and other online services.
The thing to keep in mind is
that once you post something
online, you have no guarantee
that it can be erased.
If you OST something on social
media and then delete it from
your account, other people may
have already seen it or they
might have taken a screenshot of
it.
O The Osts and activity that
contribute to your digital
footrint can last forever.
This can be a good thing if your
digital footrint includes things
that give you a positive
reputation online and help you
build your personal brand.
Your online history can also
help the as you use to know more
about you.
They can use this information to
serve you better by adjusting to
the things you like and your
daily habits.
But they can also use this
information in the wrong way and
share it with others.
Kee The following tips in mind
when you go online to manage
your digital footrint.
First, know what your footrint
says about you.
Eole who search for you online
will make judgments about you
based on what they find.
This can include employers when
you alley for a job or
recruiters when you alley for
academic rograms.
It's imortant to know what your
digital footrint says about you
and how your information is
being used.
To see what your personal brand
is online, you can search for
yourself.
Search for your name in a search
engine an see what results are
displayed.
If these results don't show you
what you want, think about what
you share online and what
information you allow other
people to see.
Econdly Actively manage your
rivacy settings.
You can modify the rivacy
settings of most of the social
media sites and online
alications you use.
This can help you control who
sees what you share and what
information shows U when someone
searches for you online.
Third, manage your cookies.
Cookies are notes given to your
web browser as you browse the
web.
These cookies help as track
information that they need while
you're using the a.
This can help the a work better
for you, but this data also
contributes to your digital
footrint as it allows other
sites to gain information about
the sites you visit and your
interests.
You can use the settings in your
web browser to limit or block
the use of cookies on certain
websites.
And 4th think before you share
behave like once you share
something online you can't take
it back because that's often the
case.
Make sure you're OK with
something being part of your
public persona before you share
it, because your digital
footrint can live indefinitely
online.
O Kee these tis in mind to make
sure you're hay with your
digital footrint and how it's
used.